the men's soccer team recorded its
fourth straight victory when the
defeated ACC rival Duke one to nothing
some of your be a success can be
attributed to operations assistant
Oliver gauged the Sheffield England
native came to UVA with an extensive
background in analytics I worked as a
performance analyst it's cold as a
professional club called Sheffield
Wednesday back home I'd already been out
to America playing as a grad student at
Division to school and I wanted to come
back so I knew I had a pretty
specialized skill and specialized career
is something which is very unique in
America and still pretty new in England
gage has been around the game his entire
life his father Kevin played in the
English Premier League for club Austin
villa my dad was a pro back there he
played for sheffield united and aston
villa in the Premier League so I've had
a football integrating into my life
really since I was a kid I loved it and
I couldn't imagine doing anything else
gage sends the game video to pros own a
sports performance based company in
Leeds England to do a statistical
breakdown of every aspect of the match
and within 36 hours of the game being
finished they send us back a package
which has got over 4,000 data points in
the game so every kick every touch every
header every tackle anything that
happens in a game of soccer you know
we're on the field it happened who
performed it was it successful was it a
failure so we can start benchmarking
players on passing success rate and when
this guy gets the ball in this area the
field how good is he doing this or doing
that so we start to build a better
picture of how our team plays how we do
in certain situations and what actually
happens in a game he's done a great job
and taking all of that data and really
helping us to get organized
opponents and getting better ourselves
gage takes the data from prozone and
provides the Virginia coaching staff
with specific information beneficial to
the team success this is what we call a
radar diagram or spider charts and
people call it and it's really
interested in the unique way of getting
across maybe 10 or 15 aspects of a game
of soccer to the guys in one quick
snapshot we tend to look at how many
shots from inside the box we get on
target per game so it's very easy to say
a team played well and they had 20 shots
on goal but if 15 of them came from
outside the box a low chance of scoring
and only five of them run target you
know you're not really giving yourself
much chance to win again my role here at
Virginia is to sit through this you know
the fine-tooth comb and make sure we
know everything about everybody here we
are in the first half of game against
Duke and what you're going to see in a
second is our captain and senior Eric
bird scoring a header off a corner kick
and if we play it what you can see is
Raines incan comes towards the ball just
here and three Duke defenders all get
sucked in and out drawn out of the
middle which is exactly what we want so
as the player rolls forward the ball
comes to Jake was an ski losing loads of
space on the edge of the box and he
could put a ball into the middle for
Eric Bert to score the header but what
people might not realize is that we
figured out this was a potential
weakness in the weeks before the game so
if I show you just quickly here you can
see just like us wake forest send a man
out and three Duke defenders get drawn
towards the ball which leaves space in
the middle and a guy off the back post
moves to the front post from that free
kick we can sense an opportunity to
capitalize
so if we show the Virginia one again if
I play it slowly we've got reigns Incan
coming out it's got Thompson please in
the ball as you can see here three Duke
defenders or get drawn to the play
leaving space in the middle only this
time we have Jake rozanski just here
capitalizing on this space so as the
play goes forward the ball goes out to
Jake Jake you've got the three defenders
just here drawn out space in the middle
and especially Eric bird at the back
post one-on-one with his man and the guy
from the back post just here gets drawn
towards Wesley Suggs and as the ball
comes in you've got probably our best
header of the ball Eric bird one on one
with his defender he gets in front of
him and manages to head the ball in the
goal just in a few short clips it shows
how we can do a bit of homework on a
team spot a potential weakness show the
place some film work on a corner kick in
training that can manufacture a goal for
us what it shows is trends you know
trends not only with our team but we get
to see the data of all the other acc
teams because we're all using prozone
the other teams just don't have an ollie
every major club around the world use
Pro zone or a company just like it and
use sports coat to break down opposition
film in the future everyone across the
world is going to be using and we like
to think that here at Virginia with
slightly added the curb